Reanimator
Home » Classes » Artificer » Reanimator
Source: Ravenloft - The Horrors Within

Reassemble Corpses and Raise the Dead

Reanimators defy the laws of nature in pursuit of gruesome experiments. These grim Artificers stitch together servants from disparate corpses, use foul magic to strengthen the living, and transform the art of necromancy into a terrifying science.

Level 3: Reanimator Spells
When you reach an Artificer level specified in the Reanimator Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

Reanimator Spells
Artificer Level	Spells
3	False Life, Spare the Dying, Witch Bolt
5	Blindness/Deafness, Enhance Ability
9	Animate Dead, Lightning Bolt
13	Blight, Death Ward
17	Antilife Shell, Raise Dead
Level 3: Reanimator’s Skill Set
You gain the following benefits.

Jolt to Life. When you cast Spare the Dying, you can modify the spell so that it sends a jolt of electricity through the target, reviving it. The target regains a number of Hit Points equal to your Artificer level, and each creature of your choice in a 10-foot Emanation originating from the target makes a Dexterity saving throw against your spell save DC, taking 2d4 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.

You can modify the spell this way a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. The Lightning damage of this feature increases by 1d4 when you reach Artificer levels 11 (3d4) and 17 (4d4).

Reanimator’s Tools. You gain proficiency with Alchemist’s Supplies. If you already have this proficiency, you gain proficiency with one other type of Artisan’s Tools of your choice.

Level 3: Reanimated Companion
Using Tinker’s Tools or another type of Artisan’s Tools with which you have proficiency, you can take a Magic action to create a Reanimated Companion (see the stat block) through the power of necromancy and science. The companion manifests in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. You determine the companion’s appearance; your choices don’t affect the companion’s game statistics.

The companion is Friendly to you and your allies and obeys you. It lasts until you finish a Long Rest or until you take a Magic action to dismiss it early, at which point it harmlessly collapses into a pile of viscera. It immediately drops to 0 Hit Points and dies (triggering its Death Burst trait) if you die.

Once you create a companion, you can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest or expend a spell slot to create one. You can have only one companion at a time and can’t create one while your companion is present.

The Companion in Combat. In combat, the companion acts during your turn. It can move and take its Reaction on its own, but the only action it takes is the Dodge action unless you take a Bonus Action to command it to take an action. If you have the Incapacitated condition, the companion acts on its own and isn’t limited to the Dodge action.

Reanimated Companion
Medium Undead, Neutral
Armor Class: 10 + your Intelligence modifier
Hit Points: HP 5 + five times your Artificer level (the companion has a number of Hit Dice [d8s] equal to your Artificer level)
Speed: Speed 30 ft.
STR (Mod/Save)	DEX (Mod/Save)	CON (Mod/Save)	INT (Mod/Save)	WIS (Mod/Save)	CHA (Mod/Save)
11 (+0/+0)	10 (+0/+0)	16 (+3/+3)	4 (−3/-3)	10 (+0/+0)	6 (-2/-2)
Resistances: Necrotic, Poison
Immunities: Lightning; Charmed, Exhaustion, Poisoned
Senses: Blindsight 60 ft.; Passive Perception 10
Languages: Understands the languages you know
Challenge Rating: None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
Traits
Death Burst. The companion explodes when it dies. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each creature in a 10-foot Emanation originating from the companion. Failure: 2d4 Necrotic damage. Success: Half damage
Lightning Absorption. Whenever the companion is subjected to Lightning damage, it regains a number of Hit Points equal to the Lightning damage dealt.
Actions
Dreadful Swipe. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d4 plus your Intelligence modifier Necrotic damage, and the target can’t take Opportunity Attacks until the start of its next turn.
Level 5: Strange Modifications
Whenever you create a Reanimated Companion, it gains one of the following options of your choice; choose when you create the companion.

Arcane Conduit. You can cast spells as though you were in the companion’s space, but you must use your own senses. Once per turn, when you cast an Artificer spell from the Evocation or Necromancy school and deal damage while your companion is within 120 feet of you, you can add your Intelligence modifier to one damage roll of that spell.

Ferocity. The damage die of the companion’s Dreadful Swipe increases to 1d6.

